we've been traveling on seas like this
in rougher for over 48 hours now and I'm
like I keep trying to tell myself as
these are the richest oceans on the
planet but we look at them like this all
sort of mouthwash blue and probably only
a couple of degrees in temperature you
kind of wonder exactly what it is that
is living down there in such huge
quantities
the cold is actually the reason why
there's so much wildlife in these waters
overnight the temperature has dropped
dramatically and now I can say we're
officially in Antarctic waters but why
Rennie van Muir's veteran Antarctic
adventure leader has the explanation for
this phenomenon is rafasa we're sort of
halfway between South America right side
and tip of South America and Antarctica
and we would just cross the Antarctic
convergence right that's why Scott's a
cold so yes yes we're entering the cold
southern ocean the cold water coming
from the south and we're leaving the
warmer water from the north that means
that the temperature of the sea water
has dropped during the last six seven
hours five six centigrade and this means
a lot ecologically means a lot to do
that to a huge ocean like this so how do
you explain the convergence to someone
that doesn't actually understand what's
going on in the southern ocean is simply
a describing is your we have here around
the continent a huge area of upwelling
of cold water rich in nutrients right so
this is actually all been this ocean has
been stirred up so all the stuff from
the bottom all the goodness all the
first layers all the seconds exactly
surface fertilizers for the
phytoplankton the base of the whole food
web around Antarctica that means food
for help these are krill tiny
shrimp-like creatures measuring a little
more than two inches in length it's hard
to believe that the staple diet for many
in these waters including the biggest
animals on the planet
during the Antarctic summer the krill
becomes so abundant that its total
weight exceeds that of all human life
it's a food bounty that's well worth
traveling for
adult humpback whales measure around 50
feet in length and weigh up to 48 tons
they swim hundreds of miles in small
groups from warmer waters in the north
to gorge themselves on these krill rich
seas
working cooperatively they round up the
krill in a net of air bubbles
then using a series of elegant maneuvers
they drive the curl to the surface in
this way these humpbacks can feast on
two tons of krill a day
the cake petals are here to eat the
leftovers
you